---
title: "Ruta-Gem"
author: <a href='https://github.com/thermatix'>Thermatix</a>
---
The great thing about the ruby community as that pretty much, some one else has already done the work, want a web development framework? [Check](https://github.com/rails/rails), want a around a compiled 3D library? [Check](https://github.com/Mon-Ouie/ray), Want a client to help you access some Restfull service? [Check](https://github.com/rest-client/rest-client).

However, what do you do when somthing you want doesn't exist already? Currently there aren't any usable front end routers built for Opal. That's not to say that none exist but all seem to possess issues.

- #### [Vienna](https://github.com/opal/vienna)

    I remember seeing Vienna being used for routing in a Reactrb based application. It worked, but
    in an environment where space efficiency is important including a whole front end frame-work for just routing purposes is beyond overkill.


- #### [Opal-Router](https://github.com/adambeynon/opal-router)

    This router is simply too basic to be used, is alpha so can't be used for production, and most importantly doesn't seem to be designed with component based frame-works in mind like react.rb.

- #### [Reactive-Router](https://github.com/catprintlabs/reactor-router)

    Reactive-Router is a wrapper around react-router. The first problem is that Reactive-Router is using an older version react-router library, the second is that it's a wrapper around other code which again adds more data for the end user to download.

- #### What now?
    So, all the current usable routing libraries for opal aren't really in a usable state; after some talking, [Ruta](https://github.com/Thermatix/ruta) was born.

    Ruta is a front end frame-work agnostic routing library that is designed to be easy to use.

    Ruta introduces the concept of 'contexts'.

    A context consists of:

    * page composition
    * handlers
    * routes


    The Page composition is used to tell Ruta where to mount components on to the page. 
    It also is used as the initial component state for that context.

    Handlers are used to process in-comming route params and push the data into the component. The handler is matched to a page component in the composition.

    The routes are used to tell ruta which handlers to execute for a particular route.


- #### Page Composition

    The first step is to place arrange your contexts.
    
    ```ruby
    Ruta::Context.define :main do
      component :header do
        Header
      end

      sub_context :info, :info_view

      component :footer do
        Footer
      end
    end


    Ruta::Context.define :info_view do
      component :hero do
        Hero_Image
      end

      component :scroller do
        Info_Scroller
      end

      component :buttons do
        Buttons
      end
    end

    Ruta::Context.define :sign_up do
      component :sign_up_form do
        Sign_Up_Form
      end
    end
    ```

    When creating your contexts there is only a few things to be aware of.

    There are two key-words you can use to define your contexts.

    * `component` which is used to define an on-screen component 
    * `sub_context` which is used to place another context at this position

    and lastly that the blocks of a component *must* return an object that can be used by your frame-work to mount a component on to the screen.

- #### Handlers

    The next step is to define some handlers that can push params into components.

    ```ruby
    Ruta::Handlers.define_for :main do

    end

    Ruta::Handlers.define_for :info_view do
      handle :scroller do |params,url|
        Info_Scroller.render(page: params[:switch_to])
      end

      handle :buttons do |params,url|
        Buttons.render(selected: params[:switch_to])
      end
    end

    Ruta::Handlers.define_for :sign_up do

    end

    ```

    The only things to be aware of is that the handler's references must match the component that it drives and that like in the context page composition a handler *must* return an object that can be used by your frame-work to mount a component on to the screen.

    There is also the key-word `mount` as well that can be used to mount a sub-context 

    it can be used like this:

    ```ruby
    handle :some_component do |param,url|
      mount param[:switch_to]
    end
    ```
- #### Routes

    The penultimate step is to define your routes.

    ```ruby
    Ruta::Router.define do
      for_context :main do
        for_context :info_view do
          map :i_switch, '/buttons/:switch_to', to: [:scroller,:buttons]
          map :sign_up, '/sign_up', context: :sign_up
        end
      end
      
      root_to :main
    end
    ```


    Be aware that for the moment placing a context within another context is aesthetics only, it doesn't actually do anything, but in future will allow you to mount sub-context routes under a       route belonging to another context.

    First of all routes are mounted to a context, so you wrap any routes that belong to a context 
    inside of a `for_context` block whilst also providing the name of the context.

    Second of all It's possible to map to one of three things:

    * A single context
    * An array of contexts
    * a different context


    Lastly you need to tell Ruta which context to display first, you do this simply with the 
    `root_to` key word

- #### Setting up Rendering

    Because Ruta is frame-work agnostic it makes no assumptions about how to display,render or mount a component, so you have to tell Ruta how to do this. 

    ```ruby
    Ruta::Context.handle_render do |object,element_id|
      element = if object.class == React::Element
        object
      else
        React.create_element(object)
      end
      React.render element, `document.getElementById(#{element_id})`
    end
    ```

    This block is executed every time a component needs to be mounted to the page, it yields only two things, the object to rendered and the ID of the page element the object is to be mounted to.

    In the example it first checks if `object` is an element by checking it's class, it it's not, it turns it into an element, then it passes it to the frame-works render function along with the page element the component is to be rendered to.


- ### Starting your app

    Now your app is set up, it's time to start it, that can be accomplished like this

    ```ruby
    $document.ready do
      Ruta.start_app
    end
    ```

  The code for this can be found in an [example app](https://github.com/Thermatix/ruta_with_reactrb_example), just clone it, bundle it and then run `rackup`.

  

    
    
 
  
