---
id: dsl-overview
title: DSL Overview
permalink: dsl-overview.html
prev: displaying-data.html
next: dsl-gotchas.html
---

The React.rb DSL (Domain Specific Language) is a set of class and instance methods that are used to describe your React components.

The DSL has the following major areas:  

+ The `React::Component::Base` class and the equivilent `React::Component` mixin.
+ Class methods or *macros* that describe component class level behaviors.
+ The three data accessors methods: `params`, `state`, and `children`.
+ The tag and component rendering methods.
+ Event handlers.
+ Miscellaneous methods.

To understand the DSL we will walk through an example that will cover each of these areas in detail.

```ruby
class Clock < React::Component::Base

  param initial_mode: 12

  before_mount do
    state.mode! params.initial_mode
  end

  after_mount do
    @timer = every(60) { force_update! }
  end

  before_unmount do
    @timer.stop
  end

  FORMATS = {
    12 => "%a, %e %b %Y %I:%M %p",
    24 => "%a, %e %b %Y %H:%M"
    }

  def render
    div(class: :time) do
      Time.now.strftime(FORMATS[state.mode]).span
      select(style: {"margin-left" => 20}, value: state.mode)  do
        option(value: 12) { "12 Hour Clock" }
        option(value: 24) { "24 Hour Clock" }
      end.on(:change) do |e|
        state.mode!(e.target.value.to_i)
      end
    end
  end
end

Element['#container'].render do
  Clock(initial_mode: 12)
end
```

[Try It Out](http://goo.gl/zN8i9B)

- #### React::Component::Base

    Component classes can be be created by inheriting from `React::Component::Base`.

    ```ruby
    class Clock < React::Component::Base
    ...
    end
    ```

    You may also create a component class by mixing in the `React::Component` module:

    ```ruby
    class Clock2
      include React::Component
      ...
    end
    ```

- #### Macros (Class Methods)

    Macros specify class wide behaviors.  In our example we use the four most common macros.

    ```ruby
    class Clock < React::Component::Base
      param ...
      before_mount ...
      after_mount ...
      before_unmount ...
      ...
    end
    ```  

    The `param` macro describes the parameters the component expects.

    The `before_mount` macro defines code to be run (a callback) when a component instance is first initialized.

    The `after_mount` macro likewise runs after the instance has completed initialization, and is visible in the DOM.

    The `before_unmount` macro provides any cleanup actions before the instance is destroyed.

    The available macros are: `param, export_state, before_mount, after_mount, before_receive_props, before_update, after_update, before_unmount`

- #### Data Accessor Methods

    The three data accessor methods - `params, state, and children` are instance methods that give access to a component's React specific instance data.

    The `params` method gives (read only) access to each of the params passed to this instance, the `state` method allows state variables to be read and written, and `children` returns an enumerator of a component's children.

    In our example we see

    ```ruby
      before_mount do
        state.mode! params.mode
      end
    ```

    `params.mode` will return the value of the `mode` parameter passed to this instance, and `state.mode!` initializes (or updates) the `mode` state variable.  State variables are like *reactive* instance variables.  They can only be changed using the "!" method, and when they change they will cause a rerender.  

    More on the details of these methods can be found in the [Component API](/docs/component-api.html) section.

- #### Tag and Component Rendering

    ```ruby
      ...
        div(class: :time) do
          ...
        end
      ...
    ```

    HTML such as `div, a, select, option` etc. each have a corresponding instance method that will render that tag.  For all the tags the
    method call looks like this:

    ```ruby
    tag_name(attribute1 => value1, attribute2 => value2 ...) do
      ...nested tags...
    end
    ```

    Each key-value pair in the parameter block is passed down as an attribute to the tag as you would expect, with the exception of the `style` attribute, which takes a hash that is translated to the corresponding style string.

    The same rules apply for application defined components, except that the class constant is used to reference the component.

    ```ruby
      Clock(mode: 12)
    ```

    **Using Strings**

    Strings are treated specially as follows:  

    * If a render method or a nested tag block returns a string, the string is automatically wrapped in a `<span>` tag.
    * The code `span { "hello" }` can be shortened to `"hello".span`, likewise for `td, para, td, th` tags.
    * `"some string".br` generates `<span>some string<span><br/>`


    ```ruby
      Time.now.strftime(FORMATS[state.mode]).span  # generates <span>...current time formatted...</span>
      ...
        option(value: 12) { "12 Hour Clock" }      # generates <option value=12><span>12 Hour Clock</span></option>
    ```

    **HAML style class names**

    Any tag or component name can be followed by `.class_name` HAML style.

    ```ruby
      div.class1.class2
      # short for
      div(class: "class1 class2")
    ```
    
    Note that underscores are translated to dashes.  So `.foo_bar` will add the `foo-bar` class to the tag.  If you need to use an underscore in a class name use a double underscore which will be translated to a single underscore in the class name.

- #### Event Handlers

    Event Handlers are attached to tags and components using the `on` method.

    ```ruby
          select ... do
            ...
          end.on(:change) do |e|
            state.mode!(e.target.value.to_i)
          end
    ```

    The `on` method takes the event name symbol (note that `onClick` becomes `:click`) and the block is passed the React.js event object.

    Event handlers can be chained like so

    ```ruby
      input ... do
        ...
      end.on(:key_up) do |e|
        ...
      end.on(:change) do |e|
        ...
      end
    ```

- #### Miscellaneous Methods

    * `force_update!` is a component instance method that causes the component to re-rerender.
    * `as_node` can be attached to a component or tag, and removes the element from the rendering buffer and returns it.   This is useful when you need to pass an element as a param to another component.  However in most cases React.rb will do this automatically based on the context.  For example if passing a node as a parameter, .as_node will automatically be applied.
    * `render` can be applied to the objects returned by `as_node` and `children` to actually render the node.

    ```ruby
    class Test < React::Component::Base
      param :node
      def render
        div do
          children.each do |child|
            params.node.render
            child.render
          end
          params.node.render
        end
      end
    end

    Element['#container'].render do
      Test(node: "foo".span.as_node) do
        div { "hello"}
        div { "goodby" }
      end
    end
    ```

    [Try It Out](http://goo.gl/J6m0PN)

- #### Ruby and React.rb

    A key design goal of the DSL is to make it work seamlessly with the rest of Ruby.  Notice in the above example, the use of constant declaration (`FORMATS`), regular instance variables (`@timer`), and other non-react methods like `every` (an Opal Browser method).  

    Component classes can be organized like any other class into a logical module hierarchy or even subclassed.

    Likewise the render method can invoke other methods to compute values or even internally build tags.
